# Pyramid-of-Pain-Summit
Utilizing Knowledge of the Pyramid of Pain to implement defenses against a simulated adversary within TryHackMe. Assessment can be located on https://tryhackme.com/room/summit


As part of an SOC Analyst's toolkit, essential concepts must be grasped and applied to understand how organizations protect their systems and data. In addition, it is also necessary to look from the outside in by getting into the minds of adversaries to know how they are affected by disruptions and the vulnerabilities they seek to exploit through frameworks and concepts. One of these frameworks is the Pyramid of Pain. The Pyramid of Pain is a model divided into multiple tiers, describing the amount of "pain" an adversary will experience when security teams implement defensive methods to disrupt them. The methods of attack and defense start from Trivial "pain" points (through rulings with hash values) to Tough by studying an adversary's tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in the event they gain unauthorized access to a victim's system. With this assessment, I will show you all levels of the Pyramid of Pain in a collaborative purple-teaming setting. This scenario aims to bolster malware protection capabilities of a fictitious company (PicoSecure) with a penetration tester known as Sphnix. The objective is to increase Sphnix's cost of operations by following the Pyramid of Pain's ascending priority of indicators. 

# Explaining the Scenario
Scenario: After participating in one too many incident response activities, PicoSecure has decided to conduct a threat simulation and detection engineering engagement to bolster its malware detection capabilities. You have been assigned to work with an external penetration tester in an iterative purple-team scenario. The tester will be attempting to execute malware samples on a simulated internal user workstation. At the same time, you will need to configure PicoSecure's security tools to detect and prevent the malware from executing.
